Title: An announcement from the DSI
Text: Browser does not support script. Professor Larry Kramer   Ken was one of the earliest proponents of setting up a School centre of data science, dating from 2015 when he designed and led LSE’s first interdisciplinary research unit in data science. He helped design the Data Science Institute during two years of a planning and working group, eventually being appointed in 2020 as the Director of the new institute. Ken built its structures, designed its modules, recruited its staff, and oversaw two moves since that time. Through his vision, the Data Science Institute has succeeded in embedding data science across research and teaching at LSE, developing specialist data science degrees and modules at both undergraduate and postgraduate level, leading LSE’s membership to the Turing University Network, launching a complementary alliance with the Data Science Institute at Imperial College London, and engaging leaders and changemakers with our events programme, with speakers including Sir Tim Berners-Lee, and industry leaders from the likes of DeepMind, TfL and the NHS. As Ken prepares to depart, the Institute is poised for its next phase of growth well-equipped to tackle the challenges of the AI and data revolution. With an interdisciplinary approach that melds data science methodologies with insights from the social sciences, the DSI is uniquely placed to influence both policy and public discourse so that AI serves as a force for good. This transition coincides with   assuming the role of President and Vice Chancellor at LSE. Larry formally began his role this month and will spearhead LSE’s ambitious strategy with respect to research, education, and global impact, as well as the positioning of the social sciences in today’s rapidly changing world. Understanding and influencing how recent advances in AI will affect the future development of humanity and society head-on is a core part of Larry’s mission, and so the importance of the DSI to that mission will only continue to grow in the coming years. Taking the reins as Interim Director is   from the Department of Mathematics. Martin will support the DSI for a year through its transition, while an external recruitment process takes place for a permanent Director. To confront both the challenges and opportunities presented by the AI revolution, the Institute has also created a new Deputy Director position to ensure that the DSI is equipped for the next stage of its development. Share London School of Economics and Political Science Houghton Street London WC2A 2AE UK   LSE is a private company limited by guarantee, registration number 70527. +44 (0)20 7405 7686 © LSE 2024 Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script.
URL: https://www.lse.ac.uk/DSI/News/DSI-Announcement
