Title: BSc Politics and Data Science - LSE
Text: What are the risks posed by AI? What role does social media play in our democracy? What can be done about online hate speech? Data and digital technologies have changed the face of politics – creating a demand for graduates who can navigate these challenges. This programme will equip you with those skills. You’ll study how governments and policymakers acquire and use big data and how politicians draw on data to reach voters online. You’ll also look at the potential risks posed by AI to our political systems – and how AI can be used to benefit society. This
degree will equip you with the statistical and programming skills needed for a
future career in politics and data science. As you progress, you’ll draw on
expertise from across LSE – including the state-of-the-art  . A unique feature is the third-year project with a partner organisation. You’ll apply science methodologies to a real-world challenge, working with advocacy groups, NGOs, think tanks and other organisations. This degree will prepare you for a host of careers in different areas, including digital and social media firms, the Civil Service, government, data journalism, regulation and political risk analysis and forecasting. Here, you can check our entry requirements for GCSEs, A-levels (please read them alongside our information about subject combinations) and the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma. We also consider applications from students with a range of   and from overseas. Please select the overseas button below and choose your country from the dropdown list to find the equivalency to A-levels of your qualification. For GCSEs, you’ll need a strong pre-16 academic profile such as several GCSE grades of A (or 7) and A* (or 8-9). We also ask for a good set of GCSE grades or equivalent across a broad range of subjects, with a minimum of grade B (or 6) in GCSE English and Mathematics. AAA, with an A in Mathematics We also consider your AS grades, if available. AAB, with an A in Mathematics Read our   to learn more about contextual admissions. . 38 points overall, with 766 at higher level, including higher level Mathematics 37 points overall, with 666 at higher level, including higher level Mathematics Read our   to learn more about contextual admissions. We
welcome students from all walks of life at LSE. We want to recruit students
with the very best academic merit, potential and motivation. So, whatever your
background, please do apply. Get all the details on our general  . Competition for places at LSE is high. We cannot guarantee you an offer of a place even if you’re predicted or achieve our standard entry requirements. Our standard offer requirements are intended only as a guide and, in some cases, you’ll be asked for different grades. Discover more about our students and department. The Department of Government is an internationally renowned centre for teaching and research on politics and government. Within our department, we have 850 undergraduates, postgraduates and research students and more than 40 faculty staff – who come from 80 countries. Our research focuses on six main areas: The department’s work covers national, sub-national and global politics – with a strong emphasis on public-facing research. Teaching within the department draws on these strengths and our central role in a prestigious social science institution. As a student, you’ll learn from internationally renowned academics and study in the heart of London, close to the UK’s political heartland in Westminster and the Houses of Parliament. Our students gain the knowledge and skills to become sharp-minded critical thinkers who apply diverse analytical perspectives to political issues and conflicts around the globe. We encourage students to reflect on what it means to be responsible for addressing urgent public problems and engage in these issues in practical ways to prepare for their future careers. Our graduates find fulfilling roles in government, financial and professional services, teaching and research. Learn more about our  ,  . We consider each application carefully, taking into account all the details you’ve included on your UCAS form, such as: You may also have to provide evidence of your English proficiency, although this is not needed at the application stage.  . We’re looking for students who demonstrate: The
  shows the latest tuition fees for all programmes. You're charged a fee for each year of your programme. Your tuition fee covers registration and examination fees payable to the School, lectures, classes and individual supervision, lectures given at other colleges under intercollegiate arrangements and, under current arrangements, membership of the Students' Union. It doesn't cover living costs or travel or fieldwork. Your tuition fees, and eligibility for any financial support, depend on whether you’re classified as a home or an overseas student – known as your fee status. We assess your fee status based on guidelines from the UK Government’s Department for Education. Learn more about  . We recognise that the cost of living in London may be higher than in your home town or country. LSE provides generous financial support, in the form of bursaries and scholarships, to UK, EU and overseas students. Additionally, the UK Government provides loans to UK and some EU students. Some overseas governments also offer funding. .  you’ll take part in lectures and related classes, as well as computer lab work, totalling between 10 to 15 hours per week. Lectures are given by full-time members of staff. Classes are held in small groups (with a maximum of 15 students). These are led by teaching fellows, who may either be recent doctoral degree recipients or PhD students. Learn about the teacher responsible for each course in the relevant  . You’ll also need to complete considerable independent study, including watching recorded short videos, formative and summative coursework and other activities. Hours vary according to the course. Get a broad idea of the study time involved in the   within the Teaching section of each  . you’ll meet with your academic mentor regularly to discuss your work. Your mentor can provide advice and guidance on academic issues and, where appropriate, personal concerns. at LSE, we offer lots of opportunities to extend your learning outside the classroom.  is a great place to get advice and practise the skills you’ll need during your studies and beyond. Through LSE LIFE, you can: we want all LSE students to achieve their full potential. Students can access free, confidential advice through our  . This is the first point of contact for students. We use a wide range of formative and summative assessment methods, including research design exercises, essays, exams, individual and group presentations and a team-based project. The degree award is determined by your work across all three years, particularly the second and third years. See the current formative coursework and summative assessment for each course in the relevant  . Politics graduates have a range of skills and can fit into a variety of positions in modern life. Our former students have followed careers in business and banking, in law, in central and local government, in teaching and research, in public and university administration, and in journalism and television. From CV workshops through to careers fairs, LSE offers lots of information and support to help you make that all-important step from education into work. Many of the UK’s top employers give careers presentations at the School during the year and there are numerous workshops covering topics such as job hunting, managing interviews, writing a cover letter and using LinkedIn. See   for further details. Every undergraduate programme of more than one year duration will have Discover Uni data. The data allows you to compare information about individual programmes at different higher education institutions. Programmes offered by different institutions with similar names can vary quite significantly. We recommend researching the programmes you're interested in and taking into account the programme structure, teaching and assessment methods, and support services available.
URL: https://www.lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/undergraduate/bsc-politics-and-data-science
