Title: The Turing University Network
Text: Browser does not support script. Founded by the Alan Turing Institute in 2023, the network provides a structure for UK universities to facilitate better connections and collaboration with one another and showcase their data science/AI activity. It also provides universities with an opportunity to engage with various Turing departments and teams. The network is a key component of the   aimed at changing the world for the better with data science and AI. The  , created in 2015, is the national institute for data science and artificial intelligence and is based at the British Library.    The Turing has three ambitious goals: It has recently developed three grand challenges: LSE is one of 65 UK university members of the Turing University Network and the administration of this membership sits within the Data Science Institute. We plan to keep you updated on Turing events and funding schemes announced for academics and PhD students. We have put in place two roles, one academic and one administrative, who will oversee the management of this Network on behalf of LSE:    (Department of Statistics) is the Turing Academic Liaison and can be contacted at  .  is the Turing Administrative Liaison and can be contacted at  . If you are a member of staff at LSE and would like to receive updates regarding events and schemes that we and the Alan Turing Institute are organising then please send an email to Ginny Pavey on  . If you are a PhD student at LSE and would like to receive updates then please complete this very short form  . Turing organise and host a range of talks, workshops, seminars and conferences which colleagues can register to attend and / or participate in. The events are designed to teach, engage, and inspire people with all levels of data science and artificial intelligence experience. A full listing of events is available on the  . Many of Turing’s events are also recorded and you can browse the video archive on their  . Share London School of Economics and Political Science Houghton Street London WC2A 2AE UK   LSE is a private company limited by guarantee, registration number 70527. +44 (0)20 7405 7686 © LSE 2024 Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script.
URL: https://www.lse.ac.uk/DSI/Turing-University-Network
