Title: Study
Text: Browser does not support script. The LSE Data Science Institute forms a nexus for teaching and learning in data science at LSE. These courses began in 2021/22 and are at the cutting edge of current data science concepts. Students can select new DSI undergraduate modules using LSE for You. This course is designed to introduce students to data science and its practice: how it works and how it can produce insights from social, political, and economic data. More information is available via the   and also: DS101A (Autumn Term)   and   page.  DS101W (Winter Term)   and   page. This course will cover the fundamentals of data, with an aim to understanding how data is generated, how it is collected, how it must be transformed for use and storage, how it is stored, and the ways it can be retrieved and communicated. More information is available via the   and also:  DS105A (Autumn Term)   and   page. DS105W (Winter Term)   and   page. LSE students can watch a video that outlines the content of DS105  . This module extends the foundation of probability and statistics with an introduction to the most important concepts in data science and applied machine learning, with social science examples. More information is available via the   and also:  DS202A (Autumn Term)   and   page. DS202W (Winter Term)   and   page. LSE students can watch a video that outlines the content of DS202  .   Key contact Got a question about the DSI? Get in touch with our   who will be happy to help current students at any stage of their LSE journey. Events In addition to opportunities to study, the DSI offers an   to give students the chance to benefit from world leading multidisciplinary expertise. These events include seminars, workshops, public lectures and careers networking sessions.  The   aims to provide a programme of study that combines data science, machine learning, statistics and mathematics. The programme uses a rigorous approach, has a mathematical focus and involves applying data science to the social sciences. The BSc Data Science will prepare students for further study, or for professional and managerial careers, particularly in areas requiring the application of quantitative skills. The programme also allows students to choose to study a specialist area according to your developing interests and career plans. Students will gain practical skills, theoretical knowledge and contextual information that will be excellent preparation quantitative careers in a range of industries.  Please send queries about this programme to the  . The   combines rigorous training in political science with a good understanding of applied data science methods, and an acquisition of the statistical and programming skills necessary to apply these methods to political data. The programme also allows students to study the politics of big data, social media and data science. BSc Politics and Data Science graduates will embark on a variety of careers. These include careers in the civil service, government and international organisations, with digital media firms, both on the data science and the political side of the operation, with regulators such as Ofcom, and organisations in the growing field of data journalism (e.g. FiveThirtyEight, Vox, Upshot, Guardian Data). Please send queries about this programme to the   and visit the   for more information.   The   provides a programme of study that is suitable for students of high ability, combining and relating mathematics and the theoretical foundations of data science, where we interpret ‘data science’ as a broad label, including topics such as machine learning and Artificial Intelligence (AI). The approach in the degree is characterised by mathematical rigour, combined with applications relevant for providing the tools to analyse and develop new techniques in data science and machine learning. The degree prepares students for further study or for professional and managerial careers, particularly in areas requiring the application of quantitative skills. Please send queries about the programme to the  .     The   offers training in data science methods, with a focus on statistical perspectives. The programme offers students a solid theoretical foundation of statistical methods, as well as machine learning and data mining methods, and enables them to gain knowledge and hands-on experience in using modern computational tools and platforms that process small and large scale data. Students can choose to specialise in advanced topics in statistics and computing, and acquire analytical and quantitative skills in special application domains, such as finance and risk management. Capstone projects provide the opportunity of working on a real-world data science problem in collaboration with a corporate partner.  Please send queries about this programme to the  .   The   offers students with a background in social sciences the chance to use data to answer social, economic or political questions using the tools of data analysis, data science and computation. The programme offers a series of courses in project-based programming, applied quantitative methods, and research principles in data science, designed for students without a formal computing or statistical background. Students will also have the opportunity to choose electives from other departments, reflecting their interests and backgrounds in a substantive research area. Capstone projects provide students with the opportunity to apply the technical skills they have learned to a project of their own design. Please send queries about this programme to the  .   The   is a social science programme which offers a critical, year-long exploration of the significance of data and information within contemporary societies and communications. At a time when intensive data-gathering about online activity is central to both business models and to governments’ strategies for understanding their citizens, the programme’s theoretical perspective on datafication is highly relevant, allowing students to understand, evaluate and respond to the social and political contexts of data production and analytics. You will also consider the cultural aspects of the role of data within everyday life. Please send queries about this programme to the  .   The   provides mathematically oriented students with the skills needed to apply mathematical methods to real-world problems faced by companies, governments and other institutions. The programme delivers practical training in modelling, along with the theory of mathematical optimisation, statistics, dynamic programming and other fundamental techniques, with specialised options including combinatorial optimisation, integer programming, and algorithmic data mining. Capstone projects offer students the opportunity to undertake a consultancy role in a host organisation, and provide a solution with tangible benefits to a problem faced by the organisation. Please send queries about this programme to the  .     The   is a programme designed to equip future health data analysts with the skills they need to interpret, analyse, assess, and evaluate health interventions, services, programmes, and policies. Students will be taught to use a range of statistical methods relevant to the context of health, including machine learning, data mining, artificial intelligence, and deep learning techniques. The specialised courses in the programme will also enable students to apply advanced methods of data science and statistics to investigate real world health policy questions. Please send queries about this programme to the   and the  .     The   is aimed at those who wish to develop their skills in the analysis of quantitative data to answer research questions on spatial and geographic social science topics. The programme will suit those interested in research for academic or policy purposes, have a background in economics or other quantitative social science and are interested in developing technical skills in analysis of spatial data. Skills in obtaining, managing, visualising and analysing data (data science) are in high demand and the programme combines a training in the application of these methods and the use of geographical information systems (GIS), with the chance to study topics in urban economics, economic geography, environmental economics or planning. The culmination of the programme is a dissertation in which you investigate your own research topic using the data science and GIS methods you have studied on the course. Please send queries about this programme to the  .      The   fosters a rigorous, interdisciplinary approach to public policy that tackles policy challenges with the tools and frameworks of political science, economics, econometrics and data science.    In a world of big data and rapid technological change, computer programming and quantitative skills play a key role in the programme designed to equip professionals with the core quantitative, technical and analytical tools to address modern policy challenges. Students will hone their quantitative and analytical skills, positioning them for a variety of technical, policy, strategy and leadership roles across Government, NGOs, IFIs and the private sector.   about the MPA Data Science for Public Policy. Please send queries about the programme to the  .   Discover how to use big data to make more intelligent decisions. A five-day on campus open programme in the heart of London.  Next start date: 3 June 2024   In addition to in-person study, LSE makes world-leading teaching and research accessible to a global audience through a comprehensive portfolio of online programmes. These programmes equip students with the knowledge and skills to advance in an ever-changing world.  take place over six months, part-time, and are project-based online programmes designed for career outcomes.  take place over six to ten weeks and provide the ultimate flexibility for professionals.  offer an immersive learning experience of specialised subjects and take place over three weeks.  open the door to world-class, transformative education for learners globally. Earn a University of London qualification with academic direction by LSE from anywhere in the world. Find the full range of online study opportunities in data  . LSE Summer School offers a broad set of courses across a variety of different disciplines, taught by leading scholars in their fields. Share London School of Economics and Political Science Houghton Street London WC2A 2AE UK   LSE is a private company limited by guarantee, registration number 70527. +44 (0)20 7405 7686 © LSE 2024 Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script.
URL: https://www.lse.ac.uk/DSI/study/Study-to-24
