Title: Beveridge 2.0: AI and Data Science for Public Policy Symposium
Text: Browser does not support script. In a world increasingly shaped by digital transformation, AI and data science present new opportunities to change policymaking in nearly all areas of policy. Yet the capabilities of these emerging technologies are still unfolding and need to be better understood, both in terms of their benefits and their limitations. The Data Science Institute and the Beveridge 2.0 Programme collaborate in this symposium bringing together experts from a range of disciplines - from philosophy to statistics, government and law - to reflect together on future directions, applications, and consequences of the use of AI and data science. Emerging technologies can transform evidence-based policy development through their analytical capabilities, predictive powers, and real-time monitoring, while also bringing questions around regulation, transparency, accountability and ethics to the fore.   Wednesday 8th May 2024  Marshall Building, MAR 1.04, LSE   Arrivals and welcome   9.20-10.00      10.00-10.40   Session 1   (LSE DSI) – AI and the transformation of the social sciences  Discussant:   (Imperial College London)     (University of Greenwich) - Who should regulate AI applications in workplaces?  Discussant:   (University College London)  Tea and Coffee Break  10.50-11.40  11.40-12.20 Session 2   (LSE Law) - The Need for a Digital Beveridge Report: Automated Public Decision Making and the Need for Regulation  Discussant:   (University of East Anglia)   (Essex) - Artificial Lawyers: Epistemology and Purpose of Law in Society   Discussant:  (King’s College London)   Lunch     14.00-14.40   Session 3    (LSE Government) – The promises and dangers of AI in election campaigning  Discussant:   (University of Birmingham)     (Oxford) and   (Alan Turing Institute) - Are all policymakers data scientists now? Data science and evidence in policymaking  Discussant:   (Birmingham)   Tea and Coffee Break 14.50-15.30  15.30-16.10    16.10-16.40  Session 4     (LSE Philosophy) - Transparency and explainability for AI models used in policy-making. Discussant:   (King’s College London)    and   (LSE Statistics) Generative AI in education: catalyst or constraint? Insights from GENIAL to inform Higher Education policy. Discussant:   (University College London)   (LSE Health Policy) – What role should AI play in global health?  Discussant:   (Imperial)   Closing Remarks and Reception   is a programme hosted by the   that aims to bring the LSE community together with the intent of exploring important policy questions, fostering dialogue across disciplines and identifying avenues for collaborative cross-disciplinary research.   The   is an interdisciplinary institute established to foster the study of data science and new forms of data with a focus on their social, economic and political aspects. The   is an international community where ideas and practice meet. Our approach creates professionals with the ability to analyse, understand and resolve the challenges of contemporary governance. Share London School of Economics and Political Science Houghton Street London WC2A 2AE UK   LSE is a private company limited by guarantee, registration number 70527. +44 (0)20 7405 7686 © LSE 2024 Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script.
URL: https://www.lse.ac.uk/school-of-public-policy/events/2023-24/Beveridge-2.0-AI-and-Data-Science-for-Public-Policy
