Title: Data Science and AI for Executives On Campus Programme | LSE Executive Education
Text: Discover how to use data science and AI to make more intelligent decisions Statistical analysis and data management are transforming decision-making in just about every field of private and public life. But how do you distinguish between good data science and bad? This fast-paced, intensive programme gives you a comprehensive, non-practitioner grounding in data science, AI and machine learning. You will also explore its real-world application across business, government and law. Emerge with the understanding and vocabulary to assess quantitative evidence, design big data studies and make more intelligent, data-driven decisions. An intensive, empowering learning experience for you. Strategic impact for your organisation.   Faculty Overview | Data Science for Executives Participant Experience | Data Science and AI for Executives What are Large Language Models? How can we use AI ethically? Dr Edgar Whitley on Data Sharing Detecting the Sentiment of Text About LSE Executive Education Data Science and AI for Executives is an intensive, five-day learning experience that expertly integrates academic theory and hands-on, practical business application of the concepts and ideas explored. The programme brings together executives and decision-makers from a broad diversity of sectors, organisations and geographies at the LSE campus in central London. Together you will explore the concepts using contemporary case studies, demonstrations, group work discussion and highly interactive sessions with faculty. You also benefit from a full glossary of terms and vocabulary and direct access to four expert practitioner guest speakers who will present work from a variety of applied fields in data science. The programme is led by LSE faculty, who are global thought leaders in data science and statistical analysis. View the provisional programme timetable below: Sign up to get more information about Data Science and AI for Executives " Six months on from the programme, it’s already had a big impact on my work. I’m speaking the language of a quantitative analyst and I can’t put a price on the confidence that’s given me in my conversations. " Muzz Adams ,  Head of Performance, Investec Asset Management At LSE, we understand the complex interconnectedness of the challenges facing our world. As Europe’s foremost social science university, we know that it is only by managing this interconnectedness that you can secure sustainability and success in business. All of our world-class programmes for leaders leverage the fullest benefits of our renowned, interdisciplinary expertise – the psychology, the finance, the economic dimensions, and the interplay between them that underscores global business. You emerge with the fully rounded understanding, the integrated mindset and the leading-edge strategic tools to navigate complexity and spearhead meaningful change.   The programme is taught by world experts in data science and AI.   Professor  Kenneth Benoit Professor of Computational Social Science and Director of the LSE Data Science Institute Dr  Edgar Whitley Associate Professor of Information Systems, Department of Management Professor  Sabine Benoit Professor of Marketing, University of Surrey Find out both how to transform businesses with AI as well as the associated risks The Department of Management at LSE is a world-class centre for research and education in business and management, that draws fully on the LSE tradition of inter-disciplinary academic excellence. Ranked #2 worldwide for business and management by the QS World University Rankings 2019, the department informs and inspires the very best in management in practice by challenging and enhancing understanding of people, teams, organisations and markets, as well as the economic, psychological, social, political and technological contexts in which they operate worldwide.  This covers all tuition, course materials, daily lunches and networking events. You will receive an LSE certificate of completion at the end of the course.   All LSE executive education participants are required to have: 1 week, full-time Build the understanding, master the frameworks and learn to speak the language of finance  On campus 1 week, full-time Build the knowledge to navigate the road ahead with confidence and clarity.  On campus LSE is a private company limited by guarantee, registration number 70527. © LSE  2024
URL: https://www.lse.ac.uk/study-at-lse/executive-education/programmes/data-science-for-executives
