Title: Studying AI at LSE | Students@LSE
Text: 
     
       Estimated reading time: 10 minutes 
     
       Estimated reading time: 10 minutes Today, few shifts in technological advancements hold as much promise and potential as the rise of artificial intelligence. The rapid and extraordinary advancement we are seeing in this field provides huge opportunities to accelerate human progress, boost scientific discovery and improve the lives of people all around the world. Artificial intelligence can potentially make a difference in all aspects of our lives, from the mundane to the extraordinary – we can already see intelligent algorithms now powering powerful generative AI tools and virtual assistants, and autonomous vehicles navigating our streets. As a current postgraduate student pursuing an  , I was very keen on diving into artificial intelligence and my journey into this field has been quite enriching. I had the opportunity to enrol in the ST449 Artificial Intelligence course offered by the  , wherein I delved into a variety of topics including simple and advanced search algorithms, gameplay, constraint satisfaction problems (CSP), knowledge representation, supervised learning and reinforcement learning. Each module provided a comprehensive understanding of various concepts and methodologies to help shape our understanding of this dynamic field. For instance, in the introductory lecture, we were provided with the foundational concepts of artificial intelligence, examining two primary approaches: the top-down approach of using human cognition (where we try to imitate/exceed human intelligence) and the bottom-up approach (where we try to build something that’s intelligent using mathematics and logic). We also explored building intelligent and rational AI agents, starting off by using the classic example of a simple vacuum cleaner agent. This lecture was helpful in setting the foundation for exploration into the more advanced concepts. One of the projects that I undertook during the course included the creation of a strategic AI agent for the two-player hand game of chopsticks. By implementing sophisticated evaluation functions, I managed to elevate the agent’s winning rate to 96% against multiple bots, earning a distinction for this project. This experience emphasised the significance of algorithmic design and strategic thinking in AI development, thus helping me gain transferable skills that are applicable across various domains. I’m looking forward to leveraging my knowledge and skills in my career to make meaningful contributions in the field of data science using AI-driven solutions and decision-making. Apart from coursework, there are other opportunities provided by LSE’s Department of Statistics. Students currently enrolled in the ST456 Deep Learning course are participating in the ongoing  , which is focused on understanding how LSE students are (or are yet to) integrate AI chatbots like ChatGPT or Bard into their studies during the academic term. The project aims to fill a knowledge gap and obtain insights into possible future paths for education in light of these new technologies. I find this very inspiring – as academia explores the power of artificial intelligence in education, LSE strives to be at the forefront of shaping the future of learning, thus preparing students to thrive in an increasingly AI-driven world. With rapid advancements in artificial intelligence, we are on the brink of a revolution that is unparalleled in scope, surpassing even the transitions that came in the past with the shift to mobile or to the web. That’s what excites me – that the impact of AI is profound and far-reaching for everyone. The boundary of what’s possible is constantly being redefined; therefore, it is crucial that we thoroughly understand the opportunities and risks that come with this new era of technological advancement. Through hands-on projects, collaborative discussions and a spirit of curiosity we can all unlock the true potential of AI to shape a better future.   Hi! I'm an MSc Data Science student at the Department of Statistics with a background in statistics and computer science. My interests lie in artificial intelligence, data analysis and content curation. When I'm not analysing numbers, I spend my time dancing, cooking or travelling around London.  Required fields are marked              © LSE 2024  has blocked   access attempts in the last 7 days.
URL: https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/studentsatlse/2024/04/10/exploring-artificial-intelligence-as-a-student-at-lse/
