Title: 
	AI guardians: who holds power over our data | LSE Festival

Text: Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. 
In-person and online public event (Marshall Building)                             Who is in charge of the algorithms and models that shape our future?   This event will explore ethics and bias in AI, and examine the need for diverse and inclusive data teams and decision-makers.   Kenneth Benoit ( ) is Director of the Data Science Institute at the London School of Economics and Political Science, and Professor of Computational Social Science in the Department of Methodology. He is also Professor (Part-time) in the School of Politics and International Relations, Australian National University. He has previously held positions in the Department of Political Science at Trinity College Dublin and at the Central European University (Budapest).  Eleanor Drage is a Senior Research Fellow at the University of Cambridge Centre for the Future of Intelligence, and teaches AI professionals about AI ethics on a M]aster’s course at Cambridge. She specialises in using feminist ideas to make AI better and safer for everyone. She is also currently building the world's first free and open access tool that helps companies meet the EU AI act's obligations. Eleanor is also the co-host of  , where she asks key thinkers 'what is good technology?'. She also does lots of presentations for young people and is a TikToker for Carole Cadwalladr's group of investigative journalists, 'The Citizens'.  Sadiqah Musa has over 12 years of experience in data and analytics. She started her career analysing seismic data as an Interpretation Geophysicist. With the desire to expand her knowledge and expertise, Sadiqah moved into customer and behavioural analytics. She is currently working as a Senior Analytics Manager at Trustpilot and is the founder - CEO at Black in Data where she is an advocate for increased representation of ethnic diversity within data.    Larry Kramer is President and Vice Chancellor of LSE. He is a renowned legal scholar and teacher, a former Dean of the Stanford Law School, and a former President of the William & Flora Hewlett Foundation.  This event is part of the LSE Festival: Power and Politics running from Monday 10 to Saturday 15 June 2024, with a series of events exploring how power and politics shape our world. Booking for all Festival events will open on Monday 13 May.  The   ( ) forms the institutional cornerstone of data science activity at LSE. Working alongside the academic departments across the School, the DSI's mission is to foster the study of data science and new forms of data with a focus on their social, economic, and political aspects. This event is free and open to all, but a ticket is required. Online booking for events in the LSE Festival will open on Monday 13 May 2024. For any queries contact us at  . Share This event will be streamed live on YouTube  
	 
   London School of Economics and Political Science Houghton Street London WC2A 2AE UK   LSE is a private company limited by guarantee, registration number 70527. +44 (0)20 7405 7686 © LSE 2024 Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script.
URL: https://www.lse.ac.uk/Events/LSE-Festival/2024/0615/AI
